[Rishia] Years ago,
I was born into a family
of impoverished nobles.
[chuckles]
[sentimental music playing]
[Rishia] Even though
we struggled to make ends meet,
the villagers
were nothing but kind to us.
[girl] Hey, Rishia! [laughing]
Despite living
a somewhat frugal lifestyle,
my parents and I
lived happily.
[laughter]
But then one day...
- [doors slam open]
- [all gasp]
Who are all you people?
[laughs]
[henchman]
You’re coming with us!
- [screams]
- Stop it! Let go of her!
It wasn’t
until much later in my life
that I found out a wicked noble
from the next town
had it out for us.
No! Father! Mother! [gasps]
[door slams]
My parents
weren’t able to pay back
the many debts that were
illegally imposed upon them,
and so the noble
took me instead.
And just when I thought
my life was over...
- [boom]
- [body thuds]
[gasps]
[doors scraping]
You’re safe now.
There’s no need to worry.
Huh?
[gasps]
...the nobleman’s evil deeds
were revealed
by none other
than Sir Itsuki, the Bow Hero,
who came to save me.
When no one else could,
Sir Itsuki was able
to save both me and my parents
from that nobleman.
I see why you like him.
I want to repay him.
I feel like it’s the least
I could do for what he did.
Or at least find a way
to help him somehow.
[fire crackling]
While I may not be
in the position
to say this to you...
[gasps]
he’s safe.
I’m sure of it.
[gasps]
That means the world to hear.
- [footsteps approach]
- [gasps]
It seems the decision has been
made after all then, Saint.
That’s right. We’re heading
to the Tortoise’s back.
We leave here at dawn.
[Rishia] I’m sure.
I’m sure
Sir Itsuki is there, too!
[wagon rattling]
[Naofumi] We cut off
the Spirit Tortoise’s head,
but its familiar, Ost,
is still alive.
Which means
that the Spirit Tortoise
could potentially revive itself
and go on a rampage
at any given moment.
However, the allied forces
need more time
to resupply and reorganize.
I’ve got a plan, but it’s risky.
We climb
the Spirit Tortoise’s back
and search for its weak spot.
Sounds like our only option.
After all, we need to finish off
the Spirit Tortoise
before it comes back to life.
Not to mention,
if Ost has a chance
of remembering something
by getting close to it,
then its back is our best bet.
[Ost] I agree.
Oh, I almost forgot
to ask about the big meeting.
How was it, Filo?
[sighs] Everybody was frowning
and pouting the entire time.
And they didn’t have
any food either.
Jeez! How could you say that?
I let you take my place, because
you said you wanted to go.
[Filo] Oh?
[Eclair laughs]
Well, I’m glad that Filo
ended up going to it.
She made those grumpy old men
more bearable.
Couldn’t agree more.
And if Raphtalia went,
she would’ve complained.
Hey, that’s not true!
While they were upset
about the Spirit Tortoise,
during the meeting,
they only had nice things
to say about the Turtle lady.
[Ost] Huh?
[Filo] One of them said,
"During the fight,
she saved the lives
of countless soldiers."
That’s flattering, but I
don’t deserve your praise,
because my real job
is not worthy of such a thing.
Huh? Come on. Sure it is!
[Naofumi] Looks like we’re here.
[music playing]
Those sappers
sure did a good job.
Hardly anything left.
Can you get us
across this, Filo?
Yeah, you betcha!
Be careful, you all.
I pray that you don’t need it,
but best of luck.
Ost Hourai,
best of luck out there.
[gasps]
[sighs]
Thank you.
[grunts]
Here we go, everyone!
Whoop!
[soldiers gasp]
So this is it,
the Spirit Tortoise’s back.
[Naofumi] This is gonna be
a tough climb. That’s for sure.
Do you think
that kind young man back there
had any idea who I really am?
Oh, you mean
the soldier from earlier?
I’m sure he did.
After all, the general
sent out a message about you.
Oh, that makes sense.
Why? Is something wrong?
It’s just
that I don’t understand.
I am a servant
of the Spirit Tortoise.
My very purpose is to steal
the souls of the living.
It doesn’t make sense.
Why would that soldier treat me
so kindly knowing that?
Probably because,
despite your purpose,
you chose to stay
and fight alongside us.
Even so...
When the Spirit Tortoise
goes back to normal,
you very well might go back
to fulfilling
your original role, but still...
It doesn’t change the fact
that you saved our lives
out there on the battlefield.
That’s probably
why the soldier earlier
was so eager to show
his gratitude to you,
because you fought
as their equal.
You know,
as a comrade-in-arms.
Their equal, as a comrade...
Well, then, if that’s
how you and the others
truly feel about me,
then I couldn’t be happier.
[Rishia gasps]
[Naofumi] Ost, think you
can remember anything?
Oh, let me see.
[Ost sighs]
I’m afraid it’s no use.
It feels as if there’s a fog
trapped inside of my mind.
[Rishia gasps]
Sure enough,
there’s fog like Ost said.
[sighs]
[grunts]
Is it food time, Master?
I’m starving to death
over here.
That’s a tad bit dramatic,
but yeah, I guess
we can set up camp here.
[all gasp]
Have you lost your mind,
Naofumi?
You heard what Ost said,
didn’t you?
If all we do
is wander around all night,
we’re only gonna
exhaust ourselves.
[laughs]
Sleeping on a monster’s back?
You’re a brave one, Saint!
It’s my fault
we have to do this.
Please forgive me.
They’re cute, aren’t they?
Huh?
[both murmuring]
[Ost] You would think
they’re real sisters.
I know what you mean.
Since I’m an only child,
it’s hard not to get
jealous sometimes.
It did have its perks,
like getting
all my parents’ attention.
Do you find that you’re lonely?
Being away from your parents?
It was my choice to leave them,
and they
both supported my decision
before and after
I decided to leave.
However...
when I was banished
from the party
and I couldn’t
stand beside Sir Itsuki
when I wanted
to help him most,
I started wondering
why I was even here.
[cries]
If you had stayed beside him,
would that have been enough?
Would you have
accomplished as much?
[gasps]
Oh, forgive me.
Please know that I
didn’t mean to upset you.
I just thought that now
you could accomplish even more.
Eh?
Could you have fought
the Spirit Tortoise
with the Bow Hero?
We’ll never know,
because only the Shield Hero
was kind enough
to give you that opportunity.
And because he did,
you might help the Bow Hero
in a way you never could.
[gasps]
[crying]
I-I’m sorry!
Wait. What’s wrong?
Don’t tell me I made you cry
after all that!
It’s just that you’re
suffering more than I am,
but despite that, you’re here
trying to make me feel better.
[crying]
Of course I am.
No amount of suffering
is ever worth ignoring.
[Rishia] But...
No need to worry.
I promise I’ll be just fine.
[gasps]
- [winces]
- [gasps] What’s wrong?
I’m not sure,
but something just...
- [winces]
- [gasping]
Naofumi! Ost is--
Something’s not right.
The fog has lifted.
Huh?
[ominous music playing]
Well, can you remember now?
[gasps]
[sighs]
It’s that way.
[gasps]
[all gasp]
[wind blowing]
[sighs]
Begin the rescue!
[melancholy music playing]
[panting]
I expected this
to be hard for you,
but it seems to be affecting
Raphtalia as well.
You hanging in there,
Raphtalia?
I just need a second.
[Rishia sighs]
She must have remembered
what happened in that prison
and seeing the bodies
of her friends.
[grunts]
[gasps]
Thank you so much, Filo.
Rishia, you’re...
[chuckles]
[soldiers crying]
[Mirellia] They lived here while
the Spirit Tortoise was sealed.
I’m sure they knew
this would happen,
but if what
has been said is true
and the Tortoise
was revived against its will,
then that only makes it worse
for those who died.
Did you learn anything?
The Shadows
seem to have discovered
some kind of temple up ahead.
Come see for yourself.
[both grunt]
[wind blowing]
Your Majesty.
Excellent work.
What’s the situation?
Like the others, there are
no survivors to be found.
But there’s something I want you
to see inside, I daresay.
[Shadow]
The damage is extensive,
and the structure
could collapse, I daresay,
so be careful.
According to the texts,
this temple
was a shrine dedicated
to the Spirit Tortoise.
[sighs]
So then is this
where the seal was broken?
I can’t say for sure,
but I’d be willing to bet
this is where it took place.
- [yelps]
- Oh, no! Are you okay?
Y-Yes, but thank you
for checking on me.
[chuckles]
I-If you don’t mind me asking,
are you okay?
[gasps]
Yeah, I’m totally fine.
Don’t you worry.
I just need time to get used
to all this stuff.
That’s not true.
Huh?
You can’t get used to it!
And furthermore, you don’t
have to get used to it!
[gasps]
[chuckles]
I can’t thank you enough,
Rishia.
You too, Eclair.
N-No, I-I don’t have
the right to tell you anything!
You shouldn’t thank me!
You have my thanks.
[Ost chuckles]
[music playing]
[Mirellia] This is...
[Filo] The Spirit Tortoise!
[Rishia gasps]
It’s ancient writing.
"Spirit Tortoise.
The Guardian...
Beast of the World"?
You can read that?
Y-Yes. Is that strange?
It’s not that hard.
You see, the writing
is rather simple
for this particular field.
[Rishia grunts]
Meanwhile, it takes
practically everything I have
to read a spell book.
It seems like these writings
are trying to describe
what the Spirit Tortoise is.
However, it doesn’t appear to
mention anything about a seal.
You know, oddly enough,
you look more alive now
than you ever have
during sword practice.
Eh? Sorry! It’s just that I’m...
You don’t need to apologize
for being good at something.
Maybe we’re better off
having you
focus your time and energy
on that instead of fighting.
You might be right.
That said, her ability
to manipulate ki
is nothing less than astounding
for someone of her age.
I meant it when I said
she has the potential
to master Hengen Muso soon
if she keeps it up.
[Naofumi sighs]
- [sighs]
- Hmm?
Master Naofumi.
I hope you know
what you’re talking about.
What’s happening here?
This looks like
the writing from another world
that’s used by the Heroes.
- By the Four Cardinal Heroes?
- [Rishia] Yes.
But I’m having trouble
making sense of any of it.
[gasps] No way.
[music playing]
Master Naofumi?
It’s Japanese.
What’s "Japanese"?
- It’s from my world.
- Huh?
In the language of my country.
You mean this is
from Master Naofumi’s world.
It’s known here
as the Hero’s Alphabet.
I imagine it was left
by one of the ancient
Four Cardinal Heroes.
It’s faded, but I can make out
a few of the words,
like "seal,"
the word "seventh,"
and "shatter."
Seventh...
Does it have
something to do with this?
[sighs]
[Ost] This place
contains information
about the Spirit Tortoise’s seal
and how one can break it.
Hold on. You can read Japanese?
No, I’m afraid not,
but I am starting to remember.
The Spirit Tortoise,
to defeat it, you must...
- [rumbling]
- [all gasp]
The temple
is starting to collapse!
Oh, no!
Get us out of here now, Filo!
Okay!
But this writing
is irreplaceable!
Your safety
is more important right now!
[Shadow] Forgive me.
[Mirellia] Let go of me at once!
I’m begging you as a knight!
[Eclair] That was a close one.
Another Shadow is reporting
that the Spirit Tortoise
is likely to revive soon,
I daresay.
How is that possible?
I’m afraid
we’re out of time here.
We must hurry and climb off.
Damn it. And just when we
were getting somewhere.
[Ost] It’s okay. I remember how
to defeat the Spirit Tortoise.
[gasps]
S-So how are we
supposed to beat it, Ost?
The only way to truly stop it
is to go inside its body
and destroy its heart.
Did you say inside?
And how do you figure
we do that?
Deep within the shrine,
there is an entrance that
will lead you into its body.
If you follow down that path,
you’re guaranteed
to reach its heart.
I see.
We’re heading inside
the Spirit Tortoise, then.
Okay!
Roger!
[Rishia] Oh, no. This is bad.
As for the Queen,
Eclair, and old lady,
you can head off now.
What are you
talking about, Naofumi?
We’re going with you!
Right! Don’t underestimate
what I can do!
[Rishia] It’s now or never.
I have to speak up.
I know what you can do,
which is exactly why
I want you commanding the army.
If the Tortoise starts moving
while we’re not here,
they’re doomed to fall apart.
[Elrasla] I understand.
Then I humbly accept
your decision, Saint.
[Rishia] I’ll be left behind too
if I don’t speak up.
[sighs]
[chuckles]
Huh?
Last, but not least,
Rishia, why don’t you head down
and wait at the rear for us.
- No!
- [both gasp]
Let me go with you!
Itsuki, right?
I admit I’m worried
about his safety,
but here in this moment,
I’m a member of your party,
so if you’re going in there,
then I’m going too!
[gasps] Uh...
yeah, you’re totally right.
Forgive me.
Now then, Raphtalia, Filo,
Ost, and Rishia, let’s go.
[gasps]
Right!
[wind blowing]
- [footsteps echoing]
- This place sure is eerie.
Are we inside the turtle now?
Yeah, and if I
had to take a guess,
I’d say we’re
in its large intestine.
Master Naofumi,
that’s disgusting.
The real unsolved mystery here
is if this thing
only eats souls,
then what does it poop out?
Master Naofumi!
I’m just asking
what we’re all thinking.
[Raphtalia]
No one else thought that.
[Filo] I’m surprised
it doesn’t smell weird.
- [Raphtalia] Not you too, Filo.
- [Naofumi] Yeah.
[Filo] I didn’t say anything!
[panting]
[Ost] Thank you, Rishia.
[gasps]
I’m glad you chose
to come with us.
Oh, you’re far too kind.
It’s really not something
worth thanking me for.
I hope that the Bow Hero
and the others are safe.
I’m sure that would be
a huge relief for you,
wouldn’t it?
[chuckles]
[sighs]
I said this a moment ago,
but right now,
I’m part of Naofumi’s party.
[Ost sighs]
And as such, I’m just working
towards the party’s goal
of stopping the Spirit Tortoise
and nothing else.
- [wall crumbles]
- [shrieks]
[panting]
[chuckles]
You don’t change, huh?
But that’s exactly what makes
Rishia so special, right?
That’s more like
the Rishia I’m used to!
[squeals]
- [Ost chuckles]
- [wall crumbles]
[gasps]
[rocks trickling]
[grunts]
- [man grunts]
- Get back!
Hold on. You’re human?
[gasps]
Fast Light!
[winces]
You’re adventurers?
But what are you doing here?
[scoffs] Oh, you know.
The Queen told us we should come
here as well to help you out.
The Queen did?
I don’t know about that.
Would the Queen
really give an order
to people she wasn’t familiar
with during all of this?
Think of it this way.
The more people here to help,
the better off, right?
Well, I guess
we better get going, then.
See you around, kiddo.
Not so fast.
Raphtalia!
As source of thy power,
I order thee to decipher
the laws of nature
and reveal these adventurers
for who they truly are!
Anti-Mirage!
Huh? Wait a minute! That’s...
[dramatic music playing]
[chuckles]
Long time, no see!
It’s been a while, kiddo!
It’s L’Arc and Therese.
And is that...
Why’d we even bother
with those disguises?
You didn’t have any intention
of hiding, did you, L’Arc?
Don’t tell me. Is that you...
Glass?!